Blog post about Pod Security admission graduating to stable (#35614)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-08-25-pod-security/index.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "Pod Security Admission goes Stable"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes v1.25: PodSecurity Admission Controller in Stable"
```

date: 2022-08-25
slug: pod-security-admission-stable
canonicalUrl: https://kubernetes.dev/blog/2022/08/25/pod-security-admission-stable/
---

 **Authors:** Tim Allclair and Sam Stoelinga (Google)

The release of Kubernetes v1.25 marks a major milestone for Kubernetes out-of-the-box pod security
controls: Pod Security admission (PSA) graduated to stable, and Pod Security Policy (PSP) has been
removed.

> [PSP has been deprecated since Kubernetes v1.21](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PSP was deprecated in Kubernetes v1.21](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/),
```

> but as of v1.25 it will no longer be functional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and will no longer function starting in v1.25.
```

> Pod Security Admission was designed as PSP's replacement, and makes it easier to enforce predefined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PodSecurity admission controller replaces PodSecurityPolicy, making it easier to enforce predefined
```

[Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) by

> simply adding a label to a namespace. The Pod Security Standards are maintained by the K8s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simply adding a label to a namespace. The Pod Security Standards are maintained by the Kubernetes
```

> community, which means you automatically get updated security policies when new K8s features are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
community, which means you automatically get updated security policies when new features are
```
I'm a little confused here - whenever new features are introduced? Or when new features are introduced that might impact a security baseline?

Author: Howe's this?

> The Pod Security Standards are maintained by the K8s
community, which means you automatically get updated security policies whenever new
security-impacting Kubernetes features are introduced.

introduced.

## What’s new since Beta?

> Pod Security Admission hasn’t changed much since Beta (in Kubernetes v1.23). The focus has been on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PodSecurity hasn’t changed much since the Beta in Kubernetes v1.23. The focus has been on
```

Author: This feature doesn't have a super well-defined name. PodSecurity is the feature gate, but that's not really user-facing. Our main documentation page (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) mostly refers to it as "Pod Security Admission" (capitalization of Admission is optional), so I'd prefer to stick to that convention.

> improving the user experience, while continuing to maintain a high quality and scalability bar.

Reviewer: "scalability bar" is not clear to me. "Ensuring performance at scale" perhaps?

Author: I just dropped it, as I think it's encapsulated by "high quality bar"

> **Improved violation messages:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improved violation messages
```

> Minor improvements to violation messages were made to produce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We improved violation messages so that you get
```

> [fewer duplicate messages](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/107698), so instead of
> getting this (since the baseline & restricted policies have overlapping capabilities checks):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[fewer duplicate messages](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/107698). For example,
instead of the following message when the Baseline and Restricted policy check for the same
capability:
```

```
pods "admin-pod" is forbidden: violates PodSecurity "restricted:latest": non-default capabilities (container "admin" must not include "SYS_ADMIN" in securityContext.capabilities.add), unrestricted capabilities (container "admin" must not include "SYS_ADMIN" in securityContext.capabilities.add)
```

> You get:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You get this message:
```

```
pods "admin-pod" is forbidden: violates PodSecurity "restricted:latest": unrestricted capabilities (container "admin" must not include "SYS_ADMIN" in securityContext.capabilities.add)
```

> **Improved namespace warnings:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improved namespace warnings
```

> When modifying the `enforce` Pod Security labels on a namespace, PSA checks all existing pods for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you modify the `enforce` PodSecurity labels on a namespace, the PodSecurity
admission controller checks all existing pods for
```

> violations and surfaces warning if any are out of compliance. Now,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
violations and surfaces, and warns if any are out of compliance. Now,
```
OR
```suggestion
violations and surfaces, warning if any are out of compliance. Now,
```

Author: Should be:

```suggestion
violations and surfaces a warning if any are out of compliance. Now,
```

or would you prefer 

```suggestion
violations and warns if any are out of compliance. Now,
```

> violations and surfaces warning if any are out of compliance. Now,
> [warnings are aggregated](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105889) for pods with
> identical violations, making large namespaces with many replicas much more manageable. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
violations and surfaces warning if any are out of compliance. These
[warnings are now aggregated](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105889) for pods with
identical violations, making large namespaces with many replicas much more manageable. For example:
```

```
Warning: frontend-h23gf2: allowPrivilegeEscalation != false
Warning: myjob-g342hj (and 6 other pods): host namespaces, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false Warning: backend-j23h42 (and 1 other pod): non-default capabilities, unrestricted capabilities
```

> Additionally, when applying a non-privileged to a namespace that has been
> [configured to be exempt](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#exemptions),
> you will now get a warning alerting you to this fact:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, when you deploy a non-privileged Pod to a namespace that you
[configured to be exempt](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#exemptions),
you will now get a warning alerting you to this fact:
```

Author: This applies to the action of labeling a namespace (the word `label` was missing). How about:

```suggestion
Additionally, when you apply a non-privileged label to a namespace that has been
[configured to be exempt](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#exemptions),
you will now get a warning alerting you to this fact:
```

I prefer `has been configured ...` to `you configured ...` since the configuration may have been applied by someone else (e.g. GKE cluster provisioning).

```

> Warning: namespace 'kube-system' is exempt from Pod Security, and the policy (enforce=baseline:latest) will be ignored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Warning: The `kube-system` namespace is exempt from Pod Security, and the policy (enforce=baseline:latest) will be ignored
```

```

> **Changes to the Pod Security Standards**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Changes to the Pod Security Standards
```

The [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/),
which are enforced by Pod Security admission, have been updated with support for the new Pod OS

> field. For restricted profiles in versions v1.25 and up, the following linux-specific fields will no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
field. For restricted profiles in versions v1.25 and up, the following Linux-specific fields will no
```

> The [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/),
> which are enforced by Pod Security admission, have been updated with support for the new Pod OS
> field. For restricted profiles in versions v1.25 and up, the following linux-specific fields will no
> longer be required when the pod's `.spec.os.name` has been explicitly set to `windows`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/),
which PodSecurity admission enforces, have been updated with support for the new Pod OS
field. In v1.25 and later, if you use the Restricted policy, the following linux-specific restrictions will no
longer be required if you explicitly set the `.spec.os.name` field to `windows`:
```

> * Seccomp - The `seccompProfile.type` field on pod and/or container security contexts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Seccomp - The `seccompProfile.type` field for Pod and container security contexts
```

* Privilege escalation - The `allowPrivilegeEscalation` field on container security contexts

> * Capabilities - The requirement to drop `ALL` capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Capabilities - The requirement to drop `ALL` capabilities in the `capabilities` field on containers
```

> _Note that Kubelets prior to Kubernetes v1.24 did not enforce the Pod OS field, so clusters running
> older nodes should explicitly
> [pin restricted policies to a version](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#pod-security-admission-labels-for-namespaces)
> prior to v1.25._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.24 and earlier, the kubelet didn't enforce the Pod OS field. If your cluster runs nodes with
earlier version, you should explicitly
[pin Restricted policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#pod-security-admission-labels-for-namespaces)  to a version prior to v1.25.
```

Author: Went with:

```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.23 and earlier, the kubelet didn't enforce the Pod OS field. If your cluster runs
nodes with any of those versions, you should explicitly
[pin Restricted policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#pod-security-admission-labels-for-namespaces)
to a version prior to v1.25.
```

> ## Migrating from Pod Security Policy to Pod Security Admission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migrating from PodSecurityPolicy to the PodSecurity admission controller
```

> A [guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/migrate-from-psp/) was published
> to make the process of migrating from PSP to PSA easier, and to help you choose the best migration
> strategy for your use case. In addition, a tool called

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instructions to migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the PodSecurity admission controller, and for help
choosing a migration strategy, refer to the [migration guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/migrate-from-psp/).

We're also developing a tool called
```

> [pspmigrator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/pspmigrator) is being developed to automate parts
> of the migration process. We'll be talking about PSP migration in more detail at our upcoming
> Kubecon talk,
> [Migrating from Pod Security Policy](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/schedule/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[pspmigrator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/pspmigrator) to automate parts
of the migration process. 

We'll be talking about PSP migration in more detail at our upcoming KubeCon 2022 NA talk,
*Migrating from Pod Security Policy*. Use the [KubeCon NA schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america/program/schedule/) to learn more.
```

Author: Done. Also added a direct link to the session.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.25: Pod Security Admission Controller in Stable"
date: 2022-08-25
slug: pod-security-admission-stable
---

**Authors:** Tim Allclair (Google), Sam Stoelinga (Google)

The release of Kubernetes v1.25 marks a major milestone for Kubernetes out-of-the-box pod security
controls: Pod Security admission (PSA) graduated to stable, and Pod Security Policy (PSP) has been
removed.
[PSP was deprecated in Kubernetes v1.21](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/),
and no longer functions in Kubernetes v1.25 and later.

The Pod Security admission controller replaces PodSecurityPolicy, making it easier to enforce predefined
[Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) by
simply adding a label to a namespace. The Pod Security Standards are maintained by the K8s
community, which means you automatically get updated security policies whenever new
security-impacting Kubernetes features are introduced.

## What’s new since Beta?

> Pod Security Admission hasn’t changed much since the Beta in Kubernetes v1.23. The focus has been on

Reviewer 3: non-blocking nit
```suggestion
Pod Security Admission hasn’t changed much since the beta in Kubernetes v1.23. The focus has been on
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.25: Pod Security Admission Controller in Stable"
date: 2022-08-25
slug: pod-security-admission-stable

> canonicalUrl: https://kubernetes.dev/blog/2022/08/25/pod-security-admission-stable/

Reviewer 4: This looks wrong
```suggestion
```

---

>  **Authors:** Tim Allclair and Sam Stoelinga (Google)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Authors:** Tim Allclair (Google), Sam Stoelinga (Google)
```

The release of Kubernetes v1.25 marks a major milestone for Kubernetes out-of-the-box pod security
controls: Pod Security admission (PSA) graduated to stable, and Pod Security Policy (PSP) has been
removed.
[PSP was deprecated in Kubernetes v1.21](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/),

> and will no longer function starting in v1.25.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and no longer functions in Kubernetes v1.25 and later.
```

## What’s new since Beta?

Pod Security Admission hasn’t changed much since the Beta in Kubernetes v1.23. The focus has been on
improving the user experience, while continuing to maintain a high quality bar.

### Improved violation messages

We improved violation messages so that you get
[fewer duplicate messages](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/107698). For example,
instead of the following message when the Baseline and Restricted policies check the same
capability:

```
pods "admin-pod" is forbidden: violates PodSecurity "restricted:latest": non-default capabilities (container "admin" must not include "SYS_ADMIN" in securityContext.capabilities.add), unrestricted capabilities (container "admin" must not include "SYS_ADMIN" in securityContext.capabilities.add)
```

You get this message:

```
pods "admin-pod" is forbidden: violates PodSecurity "restricted:latest": unrestricted capabilities (container "admin" must not include "SYS_ADMIN" in securityContext.capabilities.add)
```

### Improved namespace warnings

When you modify the `enforce` Pod Security labels on a namespace, the Pod Security
admission controller checks all existing pods for

> violations and surfaces a warning if any are out of compliance. These

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
violations and surfaces a [warning](/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/) if any are
out of compliance.
These
```

[warnings are now aggregated](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/105889) for pods with
identical violations, making large namespaces with many replicas much more manageable. For example:

```
Warning: frontend-h23gf2: allowPrivilegeEscalation != false
Warning: myjob-g342hj (and 6 other pods): host namespaces, allowPrivilegeEscalation != false Warning: backend-j23h42 (and 1 other pod): non-default capabilities, unrestricted capabilities
```

Additionally, when you apply a non-privileged label to a namespace that has been
[configured to be exempt](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#exemptions),
you will now get a warning alerting you to this fact:

```
Warning: namespace 'kube-system' is exempt from Pod Security, and the policy (enforce=baseline:latest) will be ignored

> ```

Reviewer 4: We could link to https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/ to explain Warnings in general.

### Changes to the Pod Security Standards

The [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/),
which Pod Security admission enforces, have been updated with support for the new Pod OS
field. In v1.25 and later, if you use the Restricted policy, the following Linux-specific restrictions will no
longer be required if you explicitly set the pod's `.spec.os.name` field to `windows`:

* Seccomp - The `seccompProfile.type` field for Pod and container security contexts
* Privilege escalation - The `allowPrivilegeEscalation` field on container security contexts
* Capabilities - The requirement to drop `ALL` capabilities in the `capabilities` field on containers

> In Kubernetes v1.23 and earlier, the kubelet didn't enforce the Pod OS field. If your cluster runs
> nodes with any of those versions, you should explicitly
> [pin Restricted policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#pod-security-admission-labels-for-namespaces)
> to a version prior to v1.25.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes v1.23 and earlier, the kubelet didn't enforce the Pod OS field.
If your cluster includes nodes running a v1.23 or older kubelet,
you should explicitly
[pin Restricted policies](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/#pod-security-admission-labels-for-namespaces)
to a version prior to v1.25.
```
